# Code: List.[h, c], Task.[h, c]

# Explanation

## What does the code do?

### List.[h, c]

Because Task scheduler get a task from a queue that contains ready-to-run
tasks, it needs a data structure to contain the tasks. MINT64OS uses
linked list for the queue, so List.[h, c] has implementation of linked list

### Task.[h, c]

In Ch17, task and context switch was implemented. There was a simple task pool
that could have up to two tasks and each slot was already reserved to console
shell and a function. In addition, to switch to another task, kContextSwitch
function was required to be called explicitly.

In Ch18, a task pool which can have up to 1024 arbitrary tasks replaces the
simple pool and task scheduler forces to switch tasks periodically if current
task spend its processor time. 

1. If a task is created, it receives a unique id that consists of
iAllocatedCount and the task index in the pool.

2. Each task is guaranteed to have its own stack of `8192 bytes`.

3. In Ch18, `Round Robin scheduling` is used

4. There are two different way to switch context. One is when task explicitly
called kContextSwitch and the other is when interrupt handler handles
context switch

5. MINT64OS intended for each task to have 5 ms of processor time. However,
it works like count rather than time. When PIT counter0 interrupt happens,
the handler decrement the value by one. Therefore, `settimer 50 1` causes
a task to have 250 ms of processor time if the task does not yield CPU.

    * ConsoleShell uses kGetCh function which busily waits for key stroke.
    This means that unless you add kSchedule function before kGetCh,
    ConsoleShell spends all of the processor time

6. Task pool starts at `0x800000 (8 MB)`

    * its size is 232 bytes (TCB) * 1024 (MAX_COUNT) = `232 KB`

7. Task Stack pool starts at `8 MB + 232 KB`

    * its size is 8192 bytes (TASK_STACKSIZE) * 1024 (MAX_COUNT) = `8 MB`



