# Code: 01.Kernel32/Source/EntryPoint.s, Utility.[h, c]

# Explanation

## What does the code do?

### First Problem

In my Acer laptop with 16GB memory, OS detects only 2GB, and In Samsung
laptop with 8GB memory, OS detects only 3GB.

### First Solution
Until now, operating system checks physical memory by manually writing to
memory. However, this way is discouraged unless it is really necessary.
Before OS is loaded to memory, some region of memory is already reserved by
hardware. Because result of accessing and writing at the region is
unpredictable, it is recommended to use BIOS service. Among various ways
to get the memory map, I used a BIOS service called `int 0x15, eax=0xE820`.

1. Sometimes accessing reserved area is allowed, but writing does not work.
Or even accessing does not work

2. Sometimes, accessing or writing at reserved area causes reboot

3. Sometimes, accessing or writing at reserved area causes page fault or
other exceptions

4. In Mint64OS, `memory map` is stored at `0x20004` and number of entries
is at `0x20000`

kCheckTotalRamSize function in Utility.c accesses the memory map entries and
gets the total available memory size which does not include reserved regions 


## assembly and BIOS

1. `test` is like `cmp`. The difference is that `test` is logical comparison and
`cmp` is arithmetic comparison. Also there is some performance and size
difference

    * result of `test eax, eax` is equal to the result of `cmp eax, 0` except
    the size and internal implementation
    
    * `test` does bitwise-and operation and discards result
    
    * `cmp` does subtraction operation and discards result

2. `int 0x15 EAX=0xE820` is complicated service. I recommend to read osdev
wiki to use the service

3. `jc short .failed`, `jne short .failed`, `jmp short .jmpin`

    * `j* short` is short jump. If the relative jump is less than 124 in
    address, short jump should be used because the size of instruction is only
    `2 bytes`. Otherwise, use near jump or far jump

    * far jump additionally includes segment selector

    * near jump works in the same segment (does not include selector in operand)

4. `jcxz`, `jecxz`, `jrcxz` is jump if cx or ecx or rcx is zero

5. `jbe` is for unsigned number comparison

6. `clc` means clear CF flag in EFLAGS

7. `stc` means set CF flag in EFLAGS

8. `and` and `test` both does the bitwise-and operation and set some flags

    * test instruction `discards` result

    * and instruction does not discard result

## Reference

1. [Detecting Memory (x86)](
    https://wiki.osdev.org/Detecting_Memory_(x86)#BIOS_Function:_INT_0x15.2C_AX_.3D_0xE801
)

2. [Difference between long and short jump](
    https://stackoverflow.com/questions/29315917/difference-between-long-and-short-jump-x86
)

3. [signed and unsigned comparison1](
    https://stackoverflow.com/questions/9617877/assembly-jg-jnle-jl-jnge-after-cmp
)

4. [signed and unsigned comparison2](
    https://stackoverflow.com/questions/27284895/how-to-compare-a-signed-value-and-an-unsigned-value-in-x86-assembly
)

5. [Difference between cmp and test](
    https://stackoverflow.com/questions/39556649/in-x86-whats-difference-between-test-eax-eax-and-cmp-eax-0/39558974
)

6. [Difference between test and and](
    https://stackoverflow.com/questions/32446083/test-instruction-and-and-instruction-x86
)