# Code: Console.[h, c], Utility.[h, c], ConsoleShell.[c, h] 


# Explanation

## What does the code do?

In this chapter, Console shell and commands to execute in shell are implemented.

### Console.[h, c]

1. printing texts easily on screen.

    * automatic scrolling at the last line

    * variable escape sequence support: hex, decimal, string, tab, new line...

2. changing foreground text color or background color.

3. changing cursor location

### Utility.[h, c]

1. string manipulation functions which use variable argument list.

    * simple implementation of vsprintf

    * number to string, string to number: decimal and hex 

2. memory test function for shell command

    * the memory is manually checked instead of using service offered by BIOS or UEFI

### ConsoleShell.[h, c]

1. a simple shell program

    * Because task and multitasking is not yet implemented, commands are
    implemented as functions. and shell searches and executes a function from
    a list when user inputs a command.


## Variable Argument List

1. `#include <stdarg.h>`

2. `void kPrintf(const char *pcFormatString, ...)`

3. `va_list ap;`

4. `pcCopyString = (char *) (va_arg(ap, char *));`

5. `va_start(ap, pcFormatString);` and `va_end(ap);`

Instead of deciding the number of parameters in the compiling time, the 
arguments are put into a stack, and it is programmer's responsibility to get
the parameters from the stack.

`va_list`, `va_arg`, `va_start`, `va_end` are macros and they should be
carefully used